We should have, by this stage,
a small but growing mailing list.
That's the hope, and
don't despise those small beginnings
when you've only got 50
people on your mailing list.
That's a good start, you're doing well.
And it does take time for
these mailing lists to grow,
but they tend to grow exponentially
after a certain length of time.
I remember from very long time, I felt
like I was stuck at a certain ceiling and
then suddenly an event happened, something
happened, I can't even remember what.
And the growth started, and
things became much better over time.
So don't give up too early.
I think the message there is I see
people giving up way too early on
this kind of thing, when they don't see
the results that they want straight away.
So we've got our small core that we're
starting with, how do we grow from there?
How do we maintain and look after,
nurture that audience over time.
Well, a lot of this will come down to
the planning of our regular emails.
So once we get past that email course
where people are on-boarded effectively,
then you're beginning to get into the kind
of regular emails that you send out.
Now, I think there's something that
I need to say at this point as well,
that over time you may decide
to target multiple sectors.
So you might initially have done
like no charities and whatever.
And you went through and you did the
report and the survey and everything, and
you got that up and running, you got
an email course for that up and running.
And then you decide you wanna
target higher education.
And that doesn't mean that you
get rid of the charities one.
So you've got some people that will be
still coming in via that route, and
now you're gonna basically copy and
paste for a different sector.
Now you probably can keep a lot of
the report, a lot of the emails,
a lot of everything, and reuse it for
a different sector with some changes.
But what this ultimately means is you've
got some people coming in from one
sector and
some people coming in from another.
They're going through two
separate email courses, and
then they're merging
into one overall list.
So, what that effectively means
is that our regular emails
that go out are gonna have to
be not as sector specific.
Unless we want to tag
users which we can do,
based on which sector they've come from,
which campaign they've come from,
and then do separately tailored emails for
each audience.
Now personally,
I think in most cases that's overkill.
So on my own mailing list for example,
I know whether people come from
a particular background, or
they work in a particular sector or
whatever else based on
where they signed up.
But most of the time they will get
the same email irrespective of what
sector they came from,
in terms of the regular ongoing email.
Now, there are occasionally, I will
write a topic where I wanna say slightly
different things to different audiences,
and that's fine, I can do that.
But most of the time I wanna keep
the work level manageable and not have to
write double or triple the number of
emails in any one particular week.
So don't worry about overly worried about
that, think more about writing generic
emails and we'll get into how to
write those emails in a minute, and
how to go about organizing yourself.
But before we do that, I wanna talk about
how your different channels fit together.
Because you've got different
channels that you will be using.
You've got email, you've got your blog
probably and you've got social, and
the relationship between all of those
is quite important to get right.
Because if you get those right then
they reinforce one another, and
don't involve a lot of
extra work the whole time.
So, let's look at the role of each.
Social, the role of social is
to grab people's attention and
encourage them to share your content and
to drive traffic to a blog
post on a related subject.
Normally speaking that's what they are.
Your blog has two roles.
First is to attract traffic
through SEO-targeted posts.
So as I said before, if you can't
write guest posts for other people,
you can write posts on your own site
that are targeted with their SEO.
But they should also drive people
to your landing page as well.
So, social grabs our attention,
blog hopefully is a kind
of intermedia to drive them to the landing
page that gets them on to email.
And once on your mailing list,
email will keep them front of mind,
slowly building your credibility
until they're ready to buy.
So that's their separate roles, but
you can do a lot of doubling up.
So, for example,
in my situation I released an email
this morning that went out.
That email was also
replicated as a blog post.
Same content, just I released it as
a blog post at the same time, okay?
And I took bits out of that email and
used those to create
the social media updates that
drove people to the blog post,
that had a sign-up form for the email.
You got me?
So that same email gets reused
three times in three places.
Now actually, because I'm a sucker for
punishment or
I don't know why,
I also do a video version of that.
That video version appears in the blog
post and is posted to YouTube.
I then also extract the audio from
that and release it as a podcast.
So from that one email,
I've got a blog post,
social media updates,
video and podcast, okay?
From one single email.
And that's what you're looking to do,
to reach people in whatever channel
they're using with the same content.
So let's look where all of
that starts with email, right?
The email that you're gonna be
sending out every other week,
every month, whatever you decide.
So what do you want to include
in those emails, right?
Well, the first thing to say is
they have to be personal, right?
These emails mustn't read
like a marketing material.
They need to be as if you
were talking to someone.
Well, the British answer to this is,
if you were talking to someone in a pub,
in your case maybe a coffee shop,
but we won't quibble,
whatever fits with your culture.
But in an informal atmosphere,
you're just chatting over a subject and
you're trying to keep it as informal, and
friendly and personal as you possibly can.
Like you would write
any other email really.
The majority of emails that
we write to colleagues,
they don't read like a marketing email and
neither should yours.
What I find helps me,
is if I think of somebody I know and
I actually write my emails for
that person, right?
And I even start, Hi Sarah or
whatever, the beginning,
just to get me in that mindset,
then I do have to remember to go up and
remove their name afterwards.
Otherwise that ends up getting published,
which did happen once, but anyway.
So they should be personal,
they should also be helpful.
So every email should provide
value to the reader, right?
So that could be in the form of advice,
but
it might be just about demonstrating
empathy over their challenge.
Some of my emails are nothing more than
me moaning about something, right?
And not necessarily even giving
the answers to how to overcome that.
But it's amazing how grateful people
are to receive an email that says
effectively you're not alone,
I face those problems too, right?
So be helpful, be empathetic.
And then the final thing is just even now,
even all the way through this process that
we've got, you still don't need to sell.
You don't need to mention your services,
you don't need to sell them.
It's okay to say something like,
as I was preparing a workshop that I'll
be giving on finding clients,
that's fine, right?
It occurred to me that, [SOUND] that's
about as sales-y as you get, right?
Because, effectively the knowledge and
expertise that you are sharing
will be you're selling, right?
That's how you demonstrate
your expertise and knowledge.
So that's what should be
included in emails, but
there are some common mistakes that I see
people make with these kinds of ongoing,
well, it applies to blogging as well.
Anything, emails and your blog,
there things I see again and
again, and it's why so
often these kinds of attempts fail.
The first one is inconsistencies, right?
So what do I mean by that?
You got to decide on a release
schedule and then stick to it.
The same time, the same day,
every single time, right?
Set aside time to work on these emails.
They matter as much as your
client work does, right?
Building your own business is as
important as building other people's
businesses in the services
that you provide.
So you've really got to be incredibly
regimented about these things.
People have got to come
to expect your emails.
So I had some technical problems a few
weeks ago where my email didn't send out.
And obviously I'd scheduled it and
presumed had gone out, and
within an hour people started dropping
me emails going, you got a problem?
I got your email this week, right?
That's a really great sign.
Secondly is infrequent, right?
Readers cannot be allowed
to forget about you,
if you only email them a couple of
times a year they'll forget you exist.
So I recommend at least once a month.
And so, if you're in that mindset
of I'll send an email out when
I've got a gap between client work,
you're gonna fail, right?
Simple as that.
Either, it's not gonna be regular enough
and so people are gonna forget about you,
or you're gonna forget to do it, or
it's gonna be totally infrequent.
So people aren't gonna expect your emails,
they're not gonna look forward to them or
anything like that.
And then the final mistake
I see is promotional again.
I know I keep saying don't sell and
I really mean that.
Your advice is gonna
establish your expertise and
the topics you write about will show your
readers the kind of services you offer.
I don't need to say I provide
conversion rate optimization services,
I just need to talk about
conversion rate optimization.